SETTINGS.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2020-2021 Mirian Margiani

SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-or-later
-->

# Settings

## Global Settings

| Key                                | Default value | Allowed values                                | Legacy key (in `[General]`)
|------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------------
| **`[General]`**                    |               |                                               |
| `DefaultFilterAction`              | `filter`      | `filter`/`search`                             |
| `ShowFullDirectoryPaths`           | `false`       | bool                                          |
| `ShowNavigationMenuIcon`           | `true`        | bool                                          |
| `FilenameElideMode`                | `fade`        | `fade`/`end`/`middle`                         |
| `SolidWindowBackground`            | `false`       | bool                                          |
| **`[Transfer]`**                   |               |                                               |
| `DefaultAction`                    | `none`        | `copy`/`move`/`link`/`none`                   | `default-transfer-action`
| **`[View]`**                       |               |                                               |
| `SortRole`                         | `name`        | `name`/`size`/`modificationtime`/`type`       | `listing-sort-by`
| `SortOrder`                        | `default`     | `default`/`reversed`                          | `listing-order`
| `SortCaseSensitively`              | `false`       | bool                                          | `sort-case-sensitive`
| `ShowDirectoriesFirst`             | `true`        | bool                                          | `show-dirs-first`
| `HiddenFilesShown`                 | `false`       | bool                                          | `show-hidden-files`
| `PreviewsShown`                    | `false`       | bool                                          | `show-thumbnails`
| `PreviewsSize`                     | `medium`      | `small`/`medium`/`large`/`huge`               | `thumbnails-size`
| `UseLocalSettings`                 | `true`        | bool                                          | `use-local-view-settings`
| `EnableGalleryMode`                | `false`       | bool                                          |
| **`[Bookmarks]`**                  |               |                                               |
| `Entries="[\"...\"]"`              |               | ordered array of paths as JSON strings (this field saves only the order of elements, not the elements themselves) | `bookmark-entries`
| `home#nemo#Devel=Devel`            |               | `path=bookmark name` for each bookmark (with all `/` replaced by `#` to distinguish them from settings groups) |


## Local Settings

Local settings are read from a hidden file named `.directory` in the current directory.
They use the same entries as [KDE](https://kde.org)'s file manager
[Dolphin](https://apps.kde.org/en/dolphin).

| Key                                | Default value | Values
|------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------------------------------------
| **`[Sailfish]`**                   |               | not used by Dolphin
| `ShowDirectoriesFirst`             | `true`        | bool
| `SortCaseSensitively`              | `false`       | bool
| `EnableGalleryMode`                | `false`       | bool
| **`[Settings]`**                   |               |
| `HiddenFilesShown`                 | `false`       | bool
| **`[Dolphin]`**                    |               |
| `SortOrder`                        | `0`           | `0`/`1` (`1` = reversed)
| `SortRole`                         | `name`        | `name`/`size`/`modificationtime`/`type`
| `PreviewsShown`                    | `false`       | bool
| `Version`                          | (`4`)         | (not used yet)
| `Timestamp`                        | (`yyyy,mm,dd,hh,mm,ss`) | (not used yet)

Commit message:

Prepare settings for a new "grid" view
Note: there is no migration in place because it would be too
complicated for such a minor change. Users might be surprised if
they have to re-enable the current "gallery" view.

SETTINGS.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2020-2022 Mirian Margiani

SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-or-later
-->

# Settings

## Global Settings

| Key                                | Default value | Allowed values                                | Legacy key (in `[General]`)
|------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------------
| **`[General]`**                    |               |                                               |
| `DefaultFilterAction`              | `filter`      | `filter`/`search`                             |
| `ShowFullDirectoryPaths`           | `false`       | bool                                          |
| `ShowNavigationMenuIcon`           | `true`        | bool                                          |
| `FilenameElideMode`                | `fade`        | `fade`/`end`/`middle`                         |
| `SolidWindowBackground`            | `false`       | bool                                          |
| **`[Transfer]`**                   |               |                                               |
| `DefaultAction`                    | `none`        | `copy`/`move`/`link`/`none`                   | `default-transfer-action`
| **`[View]`**                       |               |                                               |
| `SortRole`                         | `name`        | `name`/`size`/`modificationtime`/`type`       | `listing-sort-by`
| `SortOrder`                        | `default`     | `default`/`reversed`                          | `listing-order`
| `SortCaseSensitively`              | `false`       | bool                                          | `sort-case-sensitive`
| `ShowDirectoriesFirst`             | `true`        | bool                                          | `show-dirs-first`
| `HiddenFilesShown`                 | `false`       | bool                                          | `show-hidden-files`
| `PreviewsShown`                    | `false`       | bool                                          | `show-thumbnails`
| `PreviewsSize`                     | `medium`      | `small`/`medium`/`large`/`huge`               | `thumbnails-size`
| `UseLocalSettings`                 | `true`        | bool                                          | `use-local-view-settings`
| `ViewMode`                         | `list`        | `list`/`gallery`/`grid`                       |
| **`[Bookmarks]`**                  |               |                                               |
| `Entries="[\"...\"]"`              |               | ordered array of paths as JSON strings (this field saves only the order of elements, not the elements themselves) | `bookmark-entries`
| `home#nemo#Devel=Devel`            |               | `path=bookmark name` for each bookmark (with all `/` replaced by `#` to distinguish them from settings groups) |


## Local Settings

Local settings are read from a hidden file named `.directory` in the current directory.
They use the same entries as [KDE](https://kde.org)'s file manager
[Dolphin](https://apps.kde.org/en/dolphin).

| Key                                | Default value | Values
|------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------------------------------------
| **`[Sailfish]`**                   |               | not used by Dolphin
| `ShowDirectoriesFirst`             | `true`        | bool
| `SortCaseSensitively`              | `false`       | bool
| `ViewMode`                         | `list`        | `list`/`gallery`/`grid`
| **`[Settings]`**                   |               |
| `HiddenFilesShown`                 | `false`       | bool
| **`[Dolphin]`**                    |               |
| `SortOrder`                        | `0`           | `0`/`1` (`1` = reversed)
| `SortRole`                         | `name`        | `name`/`size`/`modificationtime`/`type`
| `PreviewsShown`                    | `false`       | bool
| `Version`                          | (`4`)         | (not used yet)
| `Timestamp`                        | (`yyyy,mm,dd,hh,mm,ss`) | (not used yet)


## Obsolete Settings

The following settings keys are no longer in use. See also the "Legacy key"
column in the global settings table for keys used prior to version 2.0.0 of the app.

| Key                                | Default value | Values                   | Scope         | Replaced by
|------------------------------------|---------------|--------------------------|---------------|-------------------------
| `View/EnableGalleryMode`           | `false`       | bool                     | local, global | `View/ViewMode`
